Feature: Device messages (#1832)
LLNL/RAJA: docs/sphinx/user_guide/feature/messages.rst

.. ##
.. ## Copyright (c) Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC and other
.. ## RAJA Project Developers. See top-level LICENSE and COPYRIGHT
.. ## files for dates and other details. No copyright assignment is required
.. ## to contribute to RAJA.
.. ##
.. ## SPDX-License-Identifier: (BSD-3-Clause)
.. ##

.. _feat-message-label:

===============================
Messages
===============================

RAJA provides a portable interface and type-safe way to store function arguments that
passed to a function at a later time. For example, from a GPU, arguments can be stored
and passed to function that prints to a file on the CPU. 

> .. warning:: This capability is new and should be considered experimental.

Reviewer: We have had feedback on how we advertise features as experimental and I would like share some thoughts: 
If this feature is meant for power users, I recommend we place under the expt namespace same if we expect API breaking changes in the near term. If this is pretty robust and we don't expect any API changes then maybe we don't need to advertise as experimental.  I share this because code projects have experienced development slow downs when updating to a RAJA version that introduces an API breaking change for a TPL. At any rate, maybe also expanding on considerations when integrating this feature into a project could mean. Even moving something from `RAJA::expt::` to standard `RAJA::` is a breaking change that users aren't a fan of.

.. ##
.. ## Copyright (c) Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC and other
.. ## RAJA Project Developers. See top-level LICENSE and COPYRIGHT
.. ## files for dates and other details. No copyright assignment is required
.. ## to contribute to RAJA.
.. ##
.. ## SPDX-License-Identifier: (BSD-3-Clause)
.. ##

.. _feat-message-label:

===============================
Messages
===============================

> RAJA provides a portable interface and type-safe way to store function arguments that

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
RAJA provides a portable interface and type-safe way to store function arguments that are
```

passed to a function at a later time. For example, from a GPU, arguments can be stored
and passed to function that prints to a file on the CPU. 

> .. warning:: This capability is new and should be considered experimental.

Reviewer 2: Since we decided to not put it in the experimental namespace, I would suggest changing this comment to something along the lines of `This capability is new. We would like users to try it out and give us feedback to improve it.`

--------------------------
How to manage messages?
--------------------------
All messages are handled via the ``message_manager``, which is responsible for
storing callbacks and a list of messages. For the purposes of ``RAJA::messages``, 
a single message can be thought of:

* ``msg_header``: helper data internal to ``RAJA``
* ``msg_args``: a tuple of arguments needed to pass to the function  

To create the ``message_manager``: 

.. literalinclude:: ../../../../examples/messages-forall.cpp
    :start-after: _raja_msg_manager_start
    :end-before: _raja_msg_manager_end
    :language: C++

``buf_sz`` is the size of the buffer that stores messages. ``res_host`` is the resource of the 

> execution policy, which determines what type of memory to store messages with. For GPU resources,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
execution policy, which determines the memory space in which messages will be stored. For GPU resources, for example,
```

  the callback is subscribed, remove from callback list. Otherwise, throws an exception.  
* ``unsubscribe_all(msg_queue_id)``: Removes all callbacks subscribed to a particular message
* ``unsubscribe_all()``: Removes all callbacks and messages.

An example for unsubscribing a callback:

.. literalinclude:: ../../../../examples/messages-forall.cpp
    :start-after: _raja_msg_unsubscribe_start
    :end-before: _raja_msg_unsubscribe_end
    :language: C++

Publishing messages
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Messages can be published/stored in a ``msg_queue``. These are non-owning adapters to the ``msg_bus``, which is 
responsible for storing all messages. The ``msg_queue`` will contain additional type information as well as 
the ``msg_queue_id``. A queue is created once a callback is subscribed to a new message type. Since ``msg_queue`` is 
non-owning, these can be copied. 

Here is how the ``msg_queue`` can be used to publish messages:

.. literalinclude:: ../../../../examples/messages-forall.cpp
    :start-after: _raja_msg_k2_start
    :end-before: _raja_msg_k2_end
    :language: C++

Handling messages
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Lastly, there needs to be a way to "handle" messages. In others, direct the messages to the corresponding callback(s).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Lastly, there needs to be a way to direct messages to the corresponding callback(s).
```
I am confused by this. Is this what you mean?

Author: Yes, that was what I meant. I had some typos and missing words in there that made it confusing.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../../examples/messages-forall.cpp
    :start-after: _raja_msg_gpu2_start
    :end-before: _raja_msg_gpu2_end
    :language: C++

.. note::
  In this example, ``res_gpu1`` and ``res_gpu2`` depend on the build (i.e., CUDA, HIP), ``EXEC_POLICY`` the
  exeuction policy for the loops (also depends on the build), and ``d_*`` arrays are allocated for the device
  while ``h_*`` are allocated for the host. These are removed from the example above to just show the 
  ``RAJA::messages`` interface.

Message queue policies
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Message queues can support various policies depending on the requirements of that queue, such as
the number of producers/consumers or the type of atomic operations.

 ======================= ============================
 Message queue Policies  Brief description
 ======================= ============================
 spsc                    Supports a single producer,
                         single consumer; i.e., no
                         atomic operations 
 mpsc                    Supports multiple producers,
                         a single consumer; i.e., 
                         requires atomic operations. 

>                          Automiatically determines 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
                         Automatically determines 
```

                         which atomic operations to 
                         use.
 ======================= ============================

.. note:: Producers and consumers can not operate at the same time

Building and running the example
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The example ``examples/messages-forall.cpp`` is built from the RAJA source tree when:

* ``ENABLE_EXAMPLES=On``

To run the example:

.. code-block:: bash

  ./bin/messages-forall
  
This example will show how callbacks can be subscribed to various types of messages as
well as how to publish messages on multiple different platforms. For the purposes of 
this example, output for messages will be printed using ``std::cout``.

--------------------------
Application considerations
--------------------------

> Things to consider when using ``RAJA::messages`` in an application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are several things to consider when using ``RAJA::messages`` in an application.
```

.. ##
.. ## Copyright (c) Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC and other
.. ## RAJA Project Developers. See top-level LICENSE and COPYRIGHT
.. ## files for dates and other details. No copyright assignment is required
.. ## to contribute to RAJA.
.. ##
.. ## SPDX-License-Identifier: (BSD-3-Clause)
.. ##

.. _feat-message-label:

===============================
Messages

> ===============================

Reviewer: It might help to be more direct in the intro here, the opening paragraph mentions messages at the end but I think it could be better to start with the headlining capability.

Author: I updated the intro a bit to provide better context for the capability. Please feel free to let me know if the intro or other sections need to be updated.

  ``MessageQueue`` every function call within a loop. Therefore, applications that use this pattern
  will want to unsubscribe at some point to avoid running out of memory. 
* Upon creation of the ``MessageManager``, the ``MessageBus`` will be allocated with some size. This
  can be resized; however, resizing will force a synchronize and will loss any messages currently stored.
  Also, by default, the allocation is done through the resource, which can be less performant depending on the resource. 
* Since the ``MessageQueue`` is a fixed size, there is a chance of lossing messages. The ``try_post_message`` function
  will return a ``boolean``. This will be ``true`` if the message is successfully added to the queue; otherwise, this
  is ``false``. 

Allocators
^^^^^^^^^^
During the creation of the ``MessageManager``, a custom
allocator needs to be provided. This allocator should follow the C++ standard
requirements for an allocator and will be used to allocate/deallocate
the message bus. The message bus will always read messages on the host
to forward the message to the respect callback(s). However, depending on the build

> and where messages are store, messages may be written on either the host

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
and where messages are stored, messages may be written on either the host
```
